This course includes installation instructions for two main operating systems
widely used today: Windows and the Mac operating system.
This section covers how to install Git and related tools on Windows.
If you are using a Mac, you can skip this section and move ahead to the next section;
you only need to watch the installation section that applies to your operating system.
I will be using the Windows 10 operating system,
since it is the most recent version of Windows as of the recording of this course.
If you have a different version of Windows, many of these steps will be similar,
but you may need to adjust for your specific version of Windows.
In this course, I use a 64 bit version of Windows since that is the type of hardware I have.
All of my installation videos show installing 64bit versions
of software when such distinction is required.
I recommend that you install the software that best matches your hardware
and operating system and make the required adjustments as needed.
In all my courses, I have standardized on using Chrome;
however, most modern versions of Windows can use the default browser,
Edge or Internet Explorer, without a problem.
If you prefer to follow along exactly, download Chrome and install it
by accepting all the defaults along the way.
We start off with installing Git for Windows, which will include
Git Bash for Windows, which we will use during the majority of this course.
After installation, I will cover some configuration settings, and a few starting commands.
After Git is installed, I cover how to install and configure Notepad++,
which is a very popular text editor that is a lot more functional
than the standard notepad provided by Windows.
Finally, we will install a visual comparison tool called P4Merge by Perforce.
Oddly enough Perforce, which also has a competing source control tool,
provides an excellent, freely available tool, for comparing differences that work well with Git.
I will cover how to install P4Merge, and how to configure it seamlessly with Git.
At the very end of this section, I provide a special installation notes lecture
that has all the instructions for installing Git and all the related tools used in this course.
This is provided to help those that prefer a written guide for doing installs and setup.